OpenAI Global Data Privacy Notice for Employees, Applicants and Candidates

Last updated: October 1, 2024
This Global Data Privacy Notice (“Data Privacy Notice”) describes how OpenAI OpCo, LLC and its
subsidiaries/affiliates (collectively, “OpenAI”) collect, use, disclose, store, and otherwise process personal
data in the context of job candidacy, employment or engagement with OpenAI. This Data Privacy Notice
includes additional information for specific jurisdictions, available in the Addenda located here: EU/UK;
U.S./Canada; Japan; and Singapore.
We hold and process data on all current and former employees, workers, individual contractors, contingent
workers, applicants, interview candidates, interns, agency workers, consultants, directors, members (i.e.
partners) ("staff" or "you" or "your"), and third parties whose information you provide to us in connection with
a job application or the employment or other working relationship.
The OpenAI entity to which you submit an application for employment or with which you are providing services
for (which we’ll refer to throughout this notice as the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us”) is responsible for the
processing of your personal data. Purely for the purposes of this Data Privacy Notice, references to
employment include engagement where you do work for us and you are not an employee.
This Data Privacy Notice does not form part of any contract of employment or engagement you may have with
the Company. We may undertake certain processing of personal data that is subject to additional or separate
data privacy notice, and we shall bring these to your attention where relevant. If you have any questions about
this Privacy Notice, or would like to access the information it contains in a different format please contact us at
hr@OpenAI.com.

OpenAI’s processing of personal data is in all cases subject to the
requirements of applicable local law, internal policy, and where applicable or
appropriate, any consultation requirements with worker representatives. To the
extent this notice conflicts with local law in your jurisdictions, local law
controls.

For further information regarding your rights as described in this Notice, or to exercise any of your rights,
please contact us at privacy@OpenAI.com.

1.0 PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
The Company collects and processes your personal data for the purposes described in this Notice. Personal
data means any information describing or relating to an identified or identifiable individual, or as otherwise
defined in applicable law. An identifiable individual is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in
particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online
identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or
social identity of that individual.
We collect various types of personal data about you for the purposes described elsewhere in this Data Privacy
Notice. Data that we may collect from or about you (depending on the specifics of your employment or
engagement, your office location, or the time you spend at OpenAI) may include:

Personal details

Such as your name(s), , gender, nationality(ies), civil / marital status, date of
birth, age, contact details, social security number, immigration / eligibility to
work information, driver’s license, languages spoken, next-of-kin / dependent /
emergency contact information, disability / reasonable adjustments
information;

Information about your
recruitment and hire

Such as skills and experience, qualifications, references, CV and application,
information collected during the recruitment and interview process, results of
credit reference check, financial sanction check and criminal record check if
permitted by applicable law, right to work verification, outcome of your
application, details of any offer made;

Information about your
employment and
engagement

Such as your contract/terms of employment or engagement, work contact,
employee or payroll number, photograph, work location default hours, default
language, time zone and currency for location, worker ID and system IDs,
work biography, assigned business unit or group, reporting line, employment
type (e.g., contingent worker/employee, full/part time), your hire/contract
begin and end dates, cost center, working hours and patterns, reason(s) for a
change in work status, exit interviews, references provided, and status
(active/inactive/terminated). If you are subject to a redundancy or
restructuring, we may collect information related to this including change
plans, organization charts, consultation records, and selection and
redeployment data;

Regulatory data

Such as records of registration with any applicable regulatory authority,
regulated status, regulatory certificates and references;

Information related to your
compensation and
benefits

Such as your remuneration information, payments for leave/absence, bank
account details, grade, tax information, benefit recipient information, details of
available benefits, benefit coverage start and end date, expense claims and
payments, loans, deductions, salary sacrifice arrangements, childcare
vouchers, and share scheme information;

Information about a leave
or absence

If you go on leave (such as family leave, or other types of leave such as
bereavement leave, jury service, or compassionate leave) or otherwise take a
term of absence while at OpenAI, we may collect information such as
attendance and absence records (including dates and types of absence and
relevant approvals).
To the extent required by law, we may also collect other information about a
specific type of leave of absence, including fit notes details of incapacity, work
impact and adjustments, treatment and prognosis, manager and HR

communications, return to work interviews, meeting records, medical reports,
occupational health reports;
Information about flexible
working
procedure

Such as requests, consideration, correspondence, meeting notes and outcome
records;

Information related to your
job performance

Such as feedback, appraisals, and performance management and review
information, outcomes and objectives, talent program assessments and
records, succession plans;

Such as training and development needs, training received, and assessments
Information about your
training and development completed;

Information about
disciplinary actions and
grievances

Such as allegations, complaints, investigations, and proceeding records and
outcomes;

Health and safety data (as Such as health and safety audits, screening requests and results, risk
assessments, incident reports;
applicable)

Information related to your
use of our offices,
company devices, and
other company assets

Such as data generated from monitoring and management of company
assets (e.g., closed circuit television footage, system and building login and
access records including badge swipes, keystroke, download and print
records, information about calls or meetings, data caught by IT security
programs and filters);

Information about employee Such as subject matter of litigation and complaints, pre-claim conciliation,
communications, settlement discussions, claim proceeding records, incident
claims, complaints and
reporting and disclosures. This also may include personal data related to
disclosures
OpenAI’s (or a third parties’) establishment, exercise and/or defense of rights
generally; personal data required to comply with applicable law, or personal
data relating to responses to law enforcement or government requests;

Equality and diversity
data

Such as, where permitted by law and provided voluntarily, data regarding
gender, age, race, nationality, religious belief and/or sexuality (which we treat
as need-to-know and use, for example, to comply with federal contractor
regulations where applicable);

Other

Such as any other personal data you choose to disclose verbally or in writing
to Company personnel during the course of recruitment or your engagement;
informal opinion data generated in the course of recruitment or your
engagement relating to the administration or management of the Company's
relationship with you. This may include, for instance, information relating to
the conduct of OpenAI’s business, including carrying out roles and
responsibilities, communications with colleagues and business partners, and
internal reporting.
Certain additional information will sometimes be collected where this is
necessary and permitted by local applicable laws.

SENSITIVE DATA
To the extent permitted by applicable laws, and with your consent where required by applicable law, we may
collect sensitive personal data (sometimes called special categories of personal data). This term means
information relating to: racial or ethnic origin; political opinions; religious or philosophical beliefs; physical or
mental health (including details of accommodations or adjustments); trade union membership; sex life or
sexual orientation; biometric and genetic data; criminal records and information regarding criminal offenses or
proceedings; financial information; or as otherwise defined by applicable data protection laws.
2.0 HOW IS DATA COLLECTED
The Company collects and records your personal data from a variety of sources, but mainly directly from you,
and where required by applicable law, with your consent. You will usually provide this information directly to
your managers or local Human Resources contact or enter it into our systems (for example, through your
self-service access to our HR systems, your participation in HR processes, emails, Slack, and instant
messages you send or through verbal information which may be recorded electronically or manually). In
addition, further information about you will come from your managers or Human Resources or occasionally
your colleagues.
We also obtain some information from third parties: for example, references from a previous employer,
medical reports from external professionals, information from tax authorities, benefit providers, where we
employ a third party to carry out a background check (where permitted by applicable law), business partners,
and government agencies and authorities.
In some circumstances, data will sometimes be collected indirectly from monitoring devices or by other means
(for example, building and location access control and monitoring systems, CCTV, telephone logs and
recordings, instant message logs and email and Internet access logs), if and to the extent permitted by
applicable laws. In these circumstances, the data may be collected by the Company or a third-party provider
of the relevant service. This type of data is generally not accessed on a routine basis but access is possible.
Access can occur, for instance, in situations where OpenAI is investigating possible violations of Company
policies such as those relating to travel and expense reimbursement, use of the telephone system and the
Internet, or employee conduct generally, or where the data are needed for compliance or billing purposes.
More frequent access to such data may occur incidental to an email surveillance program, if and to the extent
permitted by applicable laws.
Where required by applicable law, when we ask you to provide personal data to us on a mandatory basis, we
will inform you of this at the time of collection and in the event that particular information is required by the
contract or statute this will be indicated. Failure to provide any mandatory information will mean that we
cannot carry out certain HR processes. For example, if you do not provide us with your bank details, we will
not be able to pay you. In some cases it may mean that we are unable to continue with your employment or

engagement as the Company will not have the personal data we believe to be necessary for the effective and
efficient administration and management of our relationship with you.
Apart from personal data relating to you, you may also provide us with personal data of third parties, notably
your dependents and other family members, for purposes of HR administration and management, including
the administration of benefits and to contact your next-of-kin in an emergency. Before you provide such
third-party personal data to us you must first inform (and where required by applicable law, obtain consent
from) these third parties of any such data which you intend to provide to us and of the processing to be
carried out by us, as detailed in this Data Privacy Notice.

3.0 WHAT ARE THE PURPOSES FOR WHICH DATA ARE PROCESSED?
Your personal data are collected and processed for business purposes, in accordance with applicable laws
and any applicable collective bargaining agreements, and with your consent where required. The specific
purposes for which we collect and process your data include:
A. recruitment and hiring (including, for example, deciding whether and when to make an offer of
employment, conducting any pre-employment checks including those required by applicable law, and
purposes relating to your location of employment);
B. to support HR administration and management and maintaining and processing general records
necessary to manage the employment, worker or other relationship and operate the contract of
employment or engagement, including:
a. providing and administering compensation, benefits and incentive schemes and
reimbursement of business costs and expenses and making appropriate tax and social
security deductions and contributions;
b. managing and operating appraisal, conduct, performance, capability, absence and grievance
related reviews, allegations, complaints, investigations and processes and other informal and
formal HR processes and making related management decisions;
c. processing information about absence or medical information regarding physical or mental
health or condition in order to: assess eligibility for incapacity or permanent disability related
remuneration or benefits, determine fitness for work, facilitate a return to work; make
adjustments or accommodations to duties or the workplace;
d. make management decisions regarding employment or engagement or continued
employment or engagement or redeployment;
e. and conduct related management processes; and training, development, promotion, career
and succession planning and business contingency planning;
C. allocating and managing duties and responsibilities and the business activities to which they relate,
including business travel, and for planning, managing, and carrying out restructuring or redundancies
or other change programs;
D. conducting surveys or other analyses for benchmarking and identifying improved ways of working,
general business, operations, and office planning, and reasons related to employee relations and
engagement at work;
E. operating email, IT, internet, social media, HR related and other company policies and procedures. To
the extent permitted by applicable laws, OpenAI carries out monitoring of the Company's IT systems
to protect and maintain the integrity of the Company's IT systems and infrastructure; to ensure
compliance with the Company's IT policies and to locate information through searches where needed

for a legitimate business purpose;
F. complying with applicable laws and regulation (for example maternity or parental leave legislation,
working time and health and safety legislation, taxation rules, worker consultation requirements, other
employment laws and regulation to which OpenAI the Company is subject in the conduct of its
business), and satisfying our regulatory obligations to supervise the persons employed or appointed
by the Company to conduct business on its behalf, including preventing, detecting and investigating a
wide range of activities and behaviors, whether relating to specific business dealings or to the
workplace generally, and liaising with regulatory authorities;
G. to the extent permitted or required by applicable law, ensuring equality of opportunity and diversity
with regard to personal characteristics protected under applicable anti-discrimination laws;
H. for business operational and reporting documentation such as the preparation of annual reports or
tenders for work or client team records, and planning, due diligence and implementation in relation to
a commercial transaction or service transfers involving OpenAI that may impact your relationship with
the Company, (for example mergers and acquisitions or a transfer of your employment under
applicable automatic transfer rules);
I.

to operate the relationship with third-party customer and suppliers including the disclosure of relevant
vetting information in accordance with relevant requirements of regulated customers, or disclosure of
information to data processors for the provision of services to the Company;

J. where relevant for publishing appropriate internal or external communications or publicity material,
including via social media in appropriate circumstances;
K. to comply with reference requests where the Company is named by the individual as a referee;
L. to enforce our legal rights and obligations, and for any purposes in connection with any legal claims
made by, against or otherwise involving you;
M. to comply with lawful requests by public authorities (including without limitation to meet national
security or law enforcement requirements), discovery requests, or where otherwise required or
permitted by applicable laws, court orders, government regulations, or regulatory authorities (including
without limitation data protection, tax and employment), whether within or outside your country.
In addition, personal data will be collected for other purposes permitted by applicable laws, with your consent
(where required) and upon notice.
Sensitive personal data may be collected and processed by the Company for the following purposes, to the
extent permitted or required by applicable law, and with your consent whenever required by applicable law:
A. documentation such as work permits, details of residency, proof of citizenship will be processed to
assess and review eligibility to work for the Company in the jurisdiction in which you work;
B. financial information will be processed to ensure payment of wages, salaries, fees or other amounts
owed to you, or benefits, as relevant to your situation;
C. information related to your racial or ethnic origin, religion, philosophical or political belief, sexual
orientation or sexual life, or disability status may be used for the collection of statistical data, or where
required to record such characteristics to comply with equality and diversity requirements of applicable
local legislation, or to keep the Company's commitment to equal opportunity under review. It may be
used in the event of a complaint under the Company's grievance, whistleblowing, anti-bullying and
harassment or similar policies where such characteristics or information are relevant to the particular

complaint, in order to comply with employment law obligations;
D. health and medical information may be used to comply with employment, health and safety or social
security laws, such as to provide statutory incapacity or maternity benefits, avoid breaching legal
duties to you, to ensure fair and lawful management of your employment, avoid unlawful termination of
your employment, to administer the Company's private medical and long term disability schemes, to
make reasonable accommodations or adjustments and avoid unlawful discrimination or dealing with
complaints arising in this regard;
E. trade union membership may be recorded to ensure that you receive any relevant rights that you may
have in connection with any trade union membership, as required to enable us to meet our obligations
under employment law; and
F. biometric data for purposes of building access and security.

4.0 DISCLOSURES OF PERSONAL DATA
Within OpenAI, your personal data can be internally accessed or disclosed on a confidential basis to:
●
●

●
●

local and global Human Resources staff, including managers and team members;
local, regional and executive management responsible for managing or making decisions in
connection with your relationship with the Company or when involved in an HR process concerning
your relationship with the Company (including, without limitation, staff from Compliance, Legal,
Employee Relations and Information Security);
system administrators; and
where necessary for the performance of specific tasks or system maintenance by staff in OpenAI
teams such as the Finance and IT Department and the Global HR information systems support
team.

In addition, we may share personal data with the following:
Other OpenAI
employees

Third parties with
whom we work

Certain basic personal data, such as your name, location, job title, contact
information, employee number and any published skills and experience profile
may also be accessible to OpenAI employees.

Examples of third parties with whom your data will be shared include tax
authorities, regulatory authorities, OpenAI’s insurers, bankers, IT administrators,
lawyers, auditors, investors, consultants and other professional advisors,
third-party partners and potential third-party partners (for instance, third parties
with whom OpenAI is exploring a strategic partnership), and administrators of the
Company's benefits programs. The Company expects such third parties to
process any data disclosed to them in accordance with applicable law, including
with respect to data confidentiality and security.
We may also disclose personal data to third parties that provide us with services,
such as hosting, supporting and maintaining the framework of our HR information
systems, or providing services on our behalf (payroll provider) In these cases,
these third parties act as a "data processor" to carry out tasks upon our
instructions for the above mentioned purposes. In this case your personal data
will only be disclosed to these parties to the extent necessary to provide the
required services.

Business transfers

If we are involved in strategic transactions, reorganization, bankruptcy,
receivership, or transition of service to another provider (collectively, a
“Transaction”), your Personal Information and other information may be
disclosed in the diligence process with counterparties and others assisting with
the Transaction and transferred to a successor or affiliate as part of that
Transaction along with other assets.

Certain
Data contained in such systems may be accessible by providers of those
interconnecting
systems, their associated companies and sub-contractors.
systems such as
local payroll and
benefits systems.
National or other
government
authorities

In order to comply with a legal obligation to which we are subject, or to establish,
exercise or defend legal rights. This is for example the case in the framework of
imminent or pending legal proceedings or a statutory audit.

Disclosures and sharing are made on the basis of your consent, where required by applicable laws.

5.0 SECURITY OF DATA
OpenAI has implemented appropriate technical, physical and organizational measures aimed at providing
a level of security appropriate to the risk.
If you are in possession of personal data of any kind (e.g., data collected in emails, address books, Excel
spreadsheets or contained in curricula vitae or elsewhere) you must ensure that the data are kept in a safe
place where unauthorized access cannot occur. Where data is retained in hard copy, storage in a locked
drawer or cabinet, accessible only to authorized individuals, is generally the most effective means of
securing the data. Where data is kept in electronic form, appropriate password protection and
appropriately secured areas should be used. You must comply with the security obligations contained in
the Company's applicable policies.
You should not create, copy or export personal data relating to any other person outside of official
company storage locations and systems except where necessary for a specific authorized and lawful
purpose under this Data Privacy Notice. In this event appropriate measures must be taken to protect the
confidentiality and integrity of the data during the processing. Once the relevant processing is complete,
steps should be taken to store or return the relevant data within the official storage locations/systems with
all less formally held records (e.g. local folders, hard copies, emails saved outside of formal managed
folders) securely erased.

6.0 RETENTION OF PERSONAL DATA

Subject to applicable law, the Company endeavors to ensure that personal data are kept as current as
possible and that irrelevant or excessive data are deleted or made anonymous as soon as reasonably
practicable.
The Company’s general approach is to only retain personal data for as long as is required to satisfy the
purpose for which it was collected by us or provided by you. This will usually be the period of your
employment/contract with us, plus the length of any applicable statutory limitation period, or mandatory
retention period (e.g., for tax or pensions information), following your departure. If you are an applicant and
are unsuccessful in your application, the Company may retain your personal data to periodically notify you
of new job openings. If you do not want us to retain your personal data for these purposes, you can let us
know by responding to our email notifications or contacting us at hr@OpenAI.com.

7.0 NOTICE OF CHANGES
The Company may change or update this Data Privacy Notice at any time, and we will inform you that we
have updated the Data Privacy Notice in accordance with applicable law.
COUNTRY/JURISDICTION SPECIFIC ADDENDUMS
European Union and UK Addendum
US and Canada Addendum
Japan Addendum
Singapore Addendum

EUROPEAN UNION AND UNITED KINGDOM DATA PRIVACY/FAIR PROCESSING
NOTICE
DATA CONTROLLER
The OpenAI entity to which you submit an application for employment or with which you have your
contract (the “Company”), along with OpenAI OpCo, LLC and OpenAI Ireland Limited, act as joint
controllers of your personal data - which means OpenAI and those two affiliates jointly determine how to
use your personal data in connection with your application and employment - but only as described in
this Policy. The Company will be primarily responsible for providing you with any information to which
you are entitled, and responding to your requests, under data protection law.
CONTACTS
You may contact the Company’s Data Protection Officer (“DPO”) at any time if you have any concerns
about the processing of your personal data or any data protection issue. The DPO can be reached at
privacy@OpenAI.com (please put in your subject line, “Attention: DPO”).
If you have any questions regarding the processing of your personal data or if you believe your privacy
rights have been violated, please contact your local Human Resources contact hr@OpenAI.com or,
where applicable, the DPO. If you are aware of an unauthorised disclosure of data, please report this
immediately to privacy@OpenAI.com.
LEGAL BASES FOR PROCESSING
Personal data

Whenever the Company processes your personal data we do so on the basis of a lawful condition (“legal
basis”) for processing. Processing of special categories of data is always justified on the basis of an
additional condition.
In the majority of cases, the processing of your personal data will be justified on one of the following
bases:

●

●

●

the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the Company is
subject (for example, disclosing the information to tax authorities, making statutory payments,
avoiding unlawful termination, avoiding unlawful discrimination, meeting statutory record keeping
requirements or health and safety obligations);
where there is no legal obligation we will process your data where the processing is necessary
for the performance of a contract to which you are a party or in order to take steps at your
request prior to entering into such a contract (for example collecting bank details to pay your
salary or processing information to provide you with the contractual benefits you are entitled to);
or
where the above two grounds do not apply, we may process your personal data where the
processing is necessary for the legitimate interests pursued by the Company (being those
purposes described in the section above), except where such interests are overridden by your
interests or fundamental rights and freedoms which require protection of personal data (for
example reviewing your performance at work).

We will on occasion process your personal data for the purpose of legitimate interests pursued by a third
party, except where such interests are overridden by your interests or fundamental rights and freedoms
which require protection of personal data.
In exceptional circumstances where we have no legitimate interest in processing but you ask us to
process data for a particular purpose we will occasionally carry out the processing on the basis of your
consent (for example if you ask us to provide pay information to a bank for a mortgage application made
by you). Where we rely on your consent, we will make this clear at the relevant time to you.
In some circumstances, data will sometimes be collected indirectly from monitoring devices or by other
means (for example, building and location access control and monitoring systems, CCTV, telephone logs
and recordings, instant message logs and email and Internet access logs), if and to the extent permitted
by applicable laws. In these circumstances, the data may be collected by OpenAI or a third party
provider of the relevant service. This type of data is generally not accessed on a routine basis but
access is possible. Access can occur, for instance, in situations where OpenAI is investigating possible
violations of Company policies such as those relating to travel and expense reimbursement, use of the
telephone system and the Internet, or employee conduct generally, or where the data are needed for
compliance or billing purposes. More frequent access to such data may occur incidental to an email
surveillance program, if and to the extent permitted by applicable laws.
Special categories of data
The special categories of personal data that may be processed by the Company are set out in this Data
Privacy Notice. Where we process special categories of data it will be justified by a legal basis set out
above and also by one of the following additional conditions:
●
●
●
●
●
●

the processing is necessary for the purposes of carrying out the obligations and exercising the
rights of you or the Company in the field of employment law, social security and social protection
law, to the extent permissible under applicable laws;
the processing is necessary for the assessment of your working capacity, medical diagnosis, the
provision of health or social care or treatment, or the management of health or social care
systems and services, to the extent permitted by applicable laws;
the processing is necessary to protect your vital interests or of another person where you are
physically or legally incapable of giving consent (for example in exceptional emergency
situations, such as a medical emergency);
the processing is necessary for purposes authorised by applicable law.
the processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims; or
in exceptional circumstances the processing is carried out subject to your explicit consent (as
explained below).

We will occasionally seek your consent to certain processing which is not otherwise justified under one
of the above conditions. If consent is required for the processing in question, it will be sought from you
separately to ensure that it is freely given, informed and explicit. Information regarding such processing
will be provided to you at the time that consent is requested, along with the impact of not providing any
such consent. You should be aware that it is not a condition or requirement of your employment to agree
to any request for consent from the Company.
Personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences will only be processed where authorised by
applicable laws. For example, an allegation of a criminal offence or conviction arising during your
relationship with the Company may be processed where required or authorised by applicable law where
we have a legal or regulatory requirement to report an offence; or where applicable laws authorise the
Company to process information about the offence (e.g. in a disciplinary process) for the purpose of
making decisions regarding your relationship with the Company.

INTERNATIONAL TRANSFER OF PERSONAL DATA

From time to time your personal data (including special categories of personal data) will be transferred to
OpenAI entities to process for the purposes described in this Data Privacy Notice. This will be applicable
for example where the relevant entity or a manager from that entity is responsible for conducting or
approving the relevant process or the data is part of a global directory where other individuals need to
have access.
These entities or managers are located within the European Union, United Kingdom and elsewhere in
the world (for example, OpenAI OpCo, LLC based in the United States).
Personal data may also be transferred to third parties (e.g. service providers or regulators as set out
above), who may have systems or suppliers located outside the European Union or the United Kingdom.
As a result, in some circumstances your personal data will be transferred to countries outside of the
country in which you work or outside of the European Union or United Kingdom to countries whose data
protection laws may be less stringent than yours.
The Company will ensure that appropriate or suitable safeguards are in place to protect your personal
information and that transfer of your personal information is in compliance with applicable data
protection laws.
Where required by applicable data protection laws, the Company has ensured that service providers
(including other OpenAI group entities) sign standard contractual clauses or similar transfer mechanisms
as approved by the European Commission, UK government or other supervisory authority with
jurisdiction over the relevant Company exporter. You can obtain a copy of any standard contractual
clauses in place which relate to transfers of your personal data by contacting privacy@OpenAI.com.
OpenAI has an intra-group data transfer agreement in place which regulates cross-border transfers of
your data within the OpenAI group.

YOUR RIGHTS AS A DATA SUBJECT
Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in GDPR, you have the following rights in respect of your
personal data.

Right

Description

Right to access, correct
and delete your personal
data

The Company aims to ensure that all personal data are correct. You also
have a responsibility to ensure that changes in personal circumstances (for
example, change of address and bank accounts) are notified to the
Company so that we can ensure that your data is up-to-date.
You have the right to request access to any of your personal data that the
Company may hold, and to request correction of any inaccurate data
relating to you. You furthermore have the right to request deletion of any
irrelevant data we hold about you.
If you are an employee, you can see and update some of this data
yourself via your applicable HR system account. However, to correct /
update certain information, you will need to contact hr@OpenAI.com.

Where we are relying upon your consent or the fact that the processing is
necessary for the performance of a contract to which you are party as the
legal basis for processing, and that personal data is processed by
automatic means, you have the right to receive all such personal data
which you have provided to the Company in a structured, commonly used
and machine-readable format, and also to require us to transmit it to
another controller where this is technically feasible.

Data portability

Right to restriction
processing

of

You have the right to restrict our processing of your personal data where:
● you contest the accuracy of the personal data until we have taken
sufficient steps to correct or verify its accuracy;
● where the processing is unlawful but you do not want us to erase the
data;
● where we no longer need the personal data for the purposes of the
processing, but you require them for the establishment, exercise or
defence of legal claims; or
● where you have objected to processing justified on legitimate interest
grounds (see below) pending verification as to whether the Company
has compelling legitimate grounds to continue processing.
Where personal data is subjected to restriction in this way we will only
process it with your consent or for the establishment, exercise or defence of
legal claims.

Right to withdraw
consent

Where we have relied on your consent to process particular information
and you have provided us with your consent to process data, you have the
right to withdraw such consent at any time. You can do this by:
in some cases deleting the relevant data from the relevant HR system
(although note that in this case it may remain in back-ups and linked
systems until it is deleted in accordance with our data retention policy); or
contacting your local Human Resources contact. It will only however be
rarely that we rely on your consent to process personal data for your
employment or engagement.

Right to object to
processing justified on
legitimate interest
grounds

Right to complain

Where we are relying upon legitimate interest to process data, then you
have the right to object to that processing. If you object, we must stop
that processing unless we can either demonstrate compelling legitimate
grounds for the processing that override your interests, rights and
freedoms or where we need to process the data for the establishment,
exercise or defence of legal claims. Where we rely upon legitimate
interest as a basis for processing we believe that we can demonstrate
such compelling legitimate grounds, but we will consider each case on
an individual basis.
You also have the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority if
you consider that the processing of your personal data infringes applicable
law. For a list of supervisory authorities please see here. We would request
that you contact us in the first instance to allow us to remedy any
complaints.

France: You have the right to issue directives concerning the disposition of

Right to control your digital
your personal data after your death, in the conditions set forth in Art. 85 of
legacy

the January 6, 1978 Law on Computing Technologies and Freedoms.

13

U.S. / CANADA

OpenAI U.S. and Canada Privacy Policy for Employees, Applicants, Contractors, and
Guests
Last Updated: October 1, 2024
OpenAI, D.B.A. Summerlight Technologies Ltd (“OpenAI”, "we", “us”, or “our”) respects your privacy
and is committed to protecting your personal information.
This Privacy Policy (“Policy”) outlines how we collect and use personal information about you leading
up to, during, and after your employment, contractual engagement, or other relationship you may
have with us. This Policy applies to current and former employees, job applicants, current or former
independent contractors, and guests (“you”).
This Policy describes the categories of personal information that we collect, how we use your
personal information, how we secure your personal information, and when we may share your
personal information with third parties. This Policy also describes your rights regarding the personal
information that we hold about you and how you can access your personal information. We will only
use your personal information in accordance with this Policy, unless otherwise required by applicable
law. To the extent this Policy conflicts with applicable law in your jurisdiction, applicable law will
control.
This Policy does not cover your use of OpenAI products as a user or customer, or outside of your
employment, working relationship, or other assignment with OpenAI. To learn more about OpenAI’s
data collection practices that cover your use of OpenAI ’s website, products, and services, please
read our Privacy Policy, available at https://OpenAI.com/privacy.
This Policy is not intended and shall not be read to create any express or implied promise or contract
for employment, for any benefit, or for specific treatment in specific situations. Canadian employees
should review the section below “Additional Information for Canadian Residents” that is specific to
Canadian residents. Nothing in this notice should be construed to interfere with OpenAI’s ability to
process your data for purposes of complying with our legal obligations, or for investigating alleged
misconduct or violations of company policy or law, subject to compliance with local legal
requirements.
Collection of Personal Information
In this Policy “Personal Information” means information that directly identifies an individual (such as a
name) or that is associated with an identified individual (such as a home address in combination with
a name), or information that can be used to identify a specific individual (such as a mobile phone
number or home address), or as the term may otherwise be defined in applicable law.
We collect, use, and store (collectively “process”) different types of Personal Information about you in
the operation of our business. For example, if you are an employee, we process Personal
Information about you primarily for managing our employment relationship with you and managing
your interactions with workplace facilities/information systems. If you are a former employee, we
process Personal Information about you primarily for legal compliance. If you are an independent
contractor, we process your Personal Information to manage your engagement with OpenAI and
access to our facilities and information systems. If you are a candidate, we process your Personal
Information to engage with you about OpenAI career opportunities and consider your application for
employment.
The Personal Information we process includes the following:

Categories of
Personal
Information

Examples of Personal Information

Categories of
Collection Sources

Identifiers

First and last name, mailing address,
employee or contractor ID, photo, signature,
telephone number, email address, tax
information, payroll information,
withholdings, and other similar identifiers.

You, service providers,
public sources.

Professional or
employment-related
information

Current or past job history or performance
evaluations, resume, cover letter, job title,
wage and benefit information, compensation,
disciplinary or employment records, job
restrictions, payroll information, and
workplace illness and injury information.

You, your references,
other employees,
service providers,
public sources.

Education
information

Educational history, academic degrees,
professional qualifications, certifications,
and skills.

You, service providers,
public sources.

Internet or other
electronic network
activity

Application data, such as emails sent and
received from your work email address,
OpenAI systems and software usage data,
OpenAI device information and activity; and
cookies when you interact with our recruiting
website as described more fully in our
Privacy Policy at www.OpenAI .com/privacy.

You, service
providers, your
devices.

Sensitive Personal
Information

Social Security number or social insurance
number driver’s license number, passport
number, state identification number, racial
or ethnic origin, citizenship or immigration
status, religious or philosophical beliefs,
medical information, financial account
information, and health insurance
information.

You.

Protected
classification
characteristics

Age (40 years or older), race, national origin,
citizenship, religion or creed, marital status,
medical condition, physical or mental
disability, sex (including gender, gender
identity, gender expression, pregnancy or
childbirth and related medical conditions),
sexual orientation, and veteran or military
status.

You.

If you are employed in Canada, these
characteristics may differ by province and
are any characteristic protected by
applicable provincial human rights
legislation. This may include but is not
limited to: indigenous identity, race, colour,
ancestry, place of origin, political belief,
religion, marital status, family status,
physical or mental disability, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression,
or age of that person or because that
person has been convicted of a criminal or
summary conviction offence that is
unrelated to the employment.
Biometric information Fingerprint and handprint scans for
employee- only for the purpose of providing
access to OpenAI offices in certain
locations.

You.

Geolocation data

You, service providers.

Physical location or building access data.

Electronic, visual,
and audio
information

Video conference or call recordings or
video surveillance for security purposes

You, service providers.

Inferences drawn
from other
Personal
Information

Summary about an employee's abilities, job
performance, or preferences.

You.

The categories above include categories of Personal Information we have collected in the preceding
12 months. It is important that the Personal Information we hold about you is accurate and current.
Please keep us informed if your information changes during your employment by emailing
HR@OpenAI.com.
How We Collect Personal Information

We will collect information from the following sources:
Directly from you. For example, if you visit our office, respond to our employment offer, submit
information via our websites or applications, complete forms or surveys that we provide to you,
exercise your employment rights, provide documents, or otherwise voluntarily provide Personal
Information to us.
From other employees or third parties. For example, when collecting feedback from colleagues
as part of regular employee reviews or information on your past employment performance or
conduct from your references or recruiters.
From our service providers. For example, we hire vendors to conduct background checks in
accordance with applicable law. We also use staffing agencies to manage our contingent
workforce who may collect Personal Information from personnel on our behalf.
From your activities at work based on, for example, office building entry, OpenAI systems and
software usage, your work computer, and Internet logs.
We may also collect publicly available information about you from third parties.

How We Use Your Personal Information
We use Personal Information as needed in performance of our employment or other relationship with
you or to comply with our legal obligations, including for the following legitimate business purposes:
●

Managing our recruitment process and our employment relationship with you including:
o

evaluating an applicant’s qualifications and suitability for employment;

o

administering pre- and post-employment tests and training activity;

o

conducting criminal and other background checks;

o

completing the employment onboarding process;

o

timekeeping, payroll, direct deposit authorization, and expense report administration;

o

administration of benefits, leaves of absence, and maintaining emergency contact
information;

o

employee training and development;

o

workers’ compensation claims management;

o

performing workforce analytics, data analytics and benchmarking; or

o

other human resource purposes.

●

Preparing and maintaining legally required records, such as I-9 forms, EEO-1 forms, and
affirmative action plans, or, if you are employed in Canada, T4s or other tax or regulatory
reporting forms.

●

Conducting accounting activities, workplace investigations, and internal audits.

●

Meeting tax obligations, complying with applicable law, and complying with health and safety
obligations.

●

Maintaining commercial insurance policies and coverages, including for workers’
compensation and other liability insurance.

●

Managing and monitoring employee access to company facilities, equipment, and systems.

●

Preventing and detecting unlawful and inappropriate use of company credit cards, systems
and assets and countering loss of company data.

●

Investigating and enforcing compliance with company policies and procedures.

●

Detecting and preventing unlawful and inappropriate use of company resources and
countering loss of company data.

●

Detecting, protecting against, responding to, and security incidents, malicious, deceptive,
fraudulent, or illegal activity; and then prosecuting those responsible for that activity.

●

Exercising or defending the legal rights of the company, its employees or affiliates.

●

Conducting business management and planning including internal administration with our
affiliated entities.

●

Engaging in corporate transactions, such as evaluating potential mergers and acquisitions,
which require review of employee records.

Data Sharing

We may share your Personal Information with our trusted affiliates, contractors, and vendors
(collectively, “service providers”) who provide services to us or on our behalf, or otherwise support
our relationship with you. These service providers include, but are not limited to, payroll processors
and benefits or leave administration providers.
As part of protecting your Personal Information, we require all our service providers to implement
appropriate security measures consistent with our policies and data security obligations. We do not
permit our providers to use your Personal Information for purposes unrelated to the terms of their
engagement with us. As such, we only permit them to use your Personal Information for those
purposes specified in accordance with our instructions.
We may also share your Personal Information for the following additional purposes where permitted
or required by applicable law:
● Complying with court orders, subpoenas, lawful discovery requests and as otherwise
permitted or required by law or regulation. We may be required by law at times, to provide
certain information to government or law enforcement agencies, or to parties to civil
lawsuits.
● Detecting and preventing fraud or other illegal or unauthorized activities.
● During emergency situations or where necessary to protect the safety of persons.
● Where the Personal Information is publicly available.
● If a business transfer or change in ownership occurs.
● For additional purposes with your consent where such consent is required by law.

Data Storage, Retention and Disposal
The information we collect may be processed and stored in the United States or in other countries
where we or our affiliates or service providers process our data. We take steps to ensure that data is
processed according to this Policy and to ensure Personal Information is adequately protected in
accordance with applicable law. Your personal information may be subject to access by local
government authorities in accordance with applicable law.
Except as otherwise permitted or required by applicable law or regulation, we will only retain your
information for as long as necessary to fulfill the purposes we collected it for, including for the
purposes of satisfying any operational, legal, accounting, or reporting requirements. Under some
circumstances we may anonymize your information so that it can no longer be associated with you.
We reserve the right to use such anonymous and de-identified data for any legitimate business
purpose without further notice to you or your express consent. Once you are no longer an employee
or contractor of OpenAI we will retain or destroy your Personal Information in accordance with our
records retention policy and applicable laws and regulations.
If you are an applicant and are unsuccessful in your application, the Company may retain your
personal data to periodically notify you of new job openings. If you do not want us to retain your
personal data for these purposes, you can let us know by responding to our email notifications or
contacting us at hr@OpenAI.com.
Additional Information for California Residents

This section supplements the above Policy and applies solely to California residents. We have
issued this notice to comply with the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA), as
amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) and implementing regulations.
This section does not address or apply to our information practices that are not subject to the
CCPA, including publicly available, deidentified, or aggregate information, or information covered
by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, California Confidentiality of Medical
Information Act, or the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
How we Share Your Personal Information

We do not sell your Personal Information and do not share your Personal Information for targeted
advertising purposes. We have not sold or shared your Personal Information for targeted advertising
purposes in the preceding 12 months. We do not have actual knowledge that we sell or share the
Personal Information of individuals under 16 years of age. We do not share your sensitive Personal
Information for purposes other than for the purposes of managing and facilitating your employment
or contract relationship with us or as otherwise authorized by you.
Your California Rights

The CCPA provides California residents with specific rights regarding their Personal Information.
●

Right to Know: You may have the right to request information about the Personal
Information we have collected about you, the purpose of our collection, and the source of the
data. You may also have the right to know the categories of third parties to whom we have
disclosed your Personal Information, for what purpose, and what Personal Information has
been disclosed.

●

Right to Access: You may have the right to request information about how we process your
Personal Information and to obtain a copy of that Personal Information.

●

Right to Portability: You may obtain a copy of your Personal Information in a structured,
commonly used, and machine-readable format and to have that information transmitted to
another organization in certain circumstances.

●

Right to Correction: You may have the right to request that we modify or correct errors in
the Personal Information that we have collected from you. However, please note that we may
not accommodate a request to change Personal Information if we believe that doing so
would violate any law, legal requirement or rights of another person, or cause the information
to be incorrect.

●

Right to Deletion: You may have the right to request the deletion of your Personal
Information that we have collected from you.

●

Right to Limit Use and Disclosure. Subject to certain conditions and exceptions, you may
have the right to limit the use and disclosure of sensitive Personal Information. However, we
do not engage in activities triggering this right.

Note, this section only applies to rights and practices pursuant to the CCPA. These rights are in
addition to any rights that may be available to you under the California Labor Code. To the extent you
wish to exercise any rights pursuant to the Labor Code, please contact hr@OpenAI.com.
1.

Rights around Automated Decision-Making Technology

We do not use your personal information for automated decision-making. If OpenAI were to use
automated decision-making technology, it may be used to infer information about your work
performance, economic situation, health, personal preferences, interests, reliability, behavior,
location, and movement. If OpenAI were to use automated decision-making, you would have the
right to request information about such automated decision- making technology and processing, and
its results. You would also have the right to opt-out of decision-making technology and profiling and
the right to opt-out of cross-context behavioral advertising.
2.

How to Exercise Your Rights

If you have any questions regarding the information contained in this Policy or would like to exercise
your California rights, please contact us using either method below:
Send an email to: hr@OpenAI.com
Call us at: 1 (844) 534-9165
You can also reach out to our Data Protection / Privacy Officer at privacy@OpenAI.com (please put
in the subject line, “Attention: DPO”).
When submitting a request, we may require additional information from you or take other steps to
verify your identity and your right to access the Personal Information we hold about you. This is done
to protect your privacy and maintain security. We may charge you a reasonable fee in instances that
require a disproportionate effort, but we will advise you of any fee in advance. We may decline to
process requests that are frivolous or unreasonably repetitive or burdensome, risk the privacy or
impact the rights of others, or are extremely impractical. An authorized agent may also submit a
request on your behalf.
3.

Non-Discrimination

California law ensures that you are free from discrimination or retaliation when you exercise your
California privacy rights, and we will not discriminate or retaliate against you for exercising any
rights.

Additional Information for Canadian Residents
This information supplements the above policy and applies to Canadian residents. In general, the
employer is permitted under Canadian law to collect, use and disclose personal information about
employees without consent but with notice where reasonable to establish, manage or terminate the
employment relationship. We process the personal information of applicants and employees in
accordance with this notice. In circumstances where consent may be required by applicable law, we
will seek your consent.
If you are a contractor or guest, by sharing your personal information with us you consent to
the processing of that personal information in accordance with this policy.
We will retain your personal information for the period required as long as necessary to fulfill the
purposes we collected it for, including for the purposes of satisfying any legal, accounting, or
reporting requirements. If we use your personal information to make a decision that affects you, we
will retain it for at least one year so you may exercise your right to access it.
4.

Rights under Canadian Law

●

Right to Access: you may have the right to request information about how we process your
Personal Information and to obtain a copy of that Personal Information.

●

Right to Correction: you may have the right to request that we correct errors in the Personal
Information that we have collected from you.

An individual’s right to access or seek correction of their personal information is not absolute
but is subject to limitations permitted or required by applicable law.
5. Questions, Complaints and Requests for Access or Correction

Questions regarding the information contained in this Policy, requests to access or correct your
personal information or complaints can be directed to:
Send an email to: hr@OpenAI.com
Call us at: 1 (844) 534-9165
You can also reach out to our Privacy Officer at privacy@OpenAI.com (please put in the subject line,
“Attention: DPO”).
When submitting a request, we may require additional information from you or take other steps to
verify your identity Personal Information we hold about you. This is done to protect your privacy
and maintain security. We will respond to any requests in accordance with applicable law.

JAPAN Additional Clauses Applicable to Employees, Applicants and
Candidates Special Categories of Personal Data
The special categories of personal data of you and your family member that may be processed by us
are set out in this Privacy Notice. We will obtain your consent to collect special categories of
personal data. You shall ensure to obtain consent upon providing the special categories of personal
data of your family members to us.
International data transfer

Due to the global nature of our operations, we may transfer or disclose your personal data to
personnel, servers or organizations outside of Japan, including the United States, Canada, the UK,
and Ireland. Where we share your personal information, we will put in place contractual measures to
ensure they process your personal data in accordance with our instructions and have in place
technical and organizational measures to protect your personal data with a level of protection
comparable to that required under the Act on the Protection of Personal Information (“APPI”).
Data Subject Rights

In Japan, you have rights under the APPI such as:
●

the right to access to, or obtain a copy of your personal data;

●

the right to request deletion or cessation of processing of your personal data if your personal
data has been used beyond the scope necessary to achieve the purpose(s) for which they
were collected, processed or obtained by deceit or in violation of the APPI, if our use of your
personal data triggers illegal acts, is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for
which they were collected, compromised or otherwise processed in a manner which could
harm the rights or legitimate interest of you;

●

the right to request cessation of transferring of your personal data if your personal data is
transferred to a third party in violation of the APPI or the transfer could harm your rights or
legitimate interest;

●

the right to request disclosure of the following information (we may refuse your request to the
extent we are permitted to do so in accordance with APPI):
o data security measures we have implemented; and
o in case where your personal data has been shared with foreign companies including
our subsidiaries and affiliates and external foreign service providers, (i) measures to
ensure the data recipients take sufficient data security measures (the “Measures”)
and the details of the Measures, (ii) measures and frequency that we audit the data
recipients’ implementation of the Measures, (iii) name of the recipient country and
rules of the country that could hinder the implementation of the Measures, and (iv)
other obstacles that could hinder the implementation of the Measures and measures
that we have conducted to solve such obstacles.

Processing of My Numbers

We may directly obtain from you and process your (including your family member’s) Individual
Number prescribed in Article 2 (5) of Act on the Use of Numbers to Identify a Specific Individual in
the Administrative Procedure (the “My Number Act”) (“Individual Number”) for the purpose of tax,
social insurance or disaster recovery purposes in accordance with the My Number Act and other
relevant laws and regulations.

Contact Information
If you have any complaints regarding our processing of your personal data, questions on this Privacy
Notice, our use of your personal data, international transfer or our data protection measures
implemented, and/or want to confirm the measures to exercise your privacy rights above, please
contact Privacy@OpenAI.com.

SINGAPORE Additional Clauses Applicable to Employees, Interns, Secondees and
Applicants
In Singapore, you have specific rights under the Personal Data Protection Act (2012):
●
You have the right to request access to any of your personal data that was used or disclosed
within a year before your request. You may also request correction of any inaccurate data relating to you.
The Company aims to ensure that all personal data are correct. You also have a responsibility to ensure
that changes in personal circumstances (for example, change of address and bank accounts) are notified
to the Company so that we can ensure that your data is up-to-date. You can see and update some of this
data yourself via your applicable HR system account. However, to correct/update certain information, you
will need to contact hr@OpenAI.com.
●
We will cease to retain your personal data or dispose of it in a proper manner when it is no longer
needed for any business or legal purpose.
●
Due to the global nature of our operations, we may transfer or disclose your personal data to
personnel, servers, OpenAI entities and managers, and service providers outside of Singapore, including
the United States, Canada, Japan, the UK, and Ireland. Where we share your personal data, we will put in
place contractual measures to ensure recipients process your personal data in accordance with our
instructions and have in place technical and organizational measures to protect your personal data with a
level of protection comparable to the protection under Singapore’s Personal Data Protection Act.
●
We will notify you of any data breach that is or is likely to be of significant scale, or results in or is
likely to result in significant harm to you.
●
At your request, we will transmit your personal data that is in the organisation’s possession or
under its control, to another organisation in a commonly used machine-readable format. Our Data
Protection Officer ("DPO") is responsible for compliance with personal data protection law. Please contact
our DPO (privacy@OpenAI.com, please put in the subject line, “Attention: DPO”) at any time if you have
any concerns about the processing of your personal data or any data protection issue. If you have any
questions regarding the processing of your personal data or if you believe your privacy rights have been
violated, please contact your local Human Resources contact hr@OpenAI.com or, where applicable, the
DPO. If you are aware of an unauthorised disclosure of data, please report this immediately to
privacy@OpenAI.com.
CONSENT LANGUAGE FOR SINGAPORE
By signing below, I acknowledge and consent to my personal data (including sensitive personal data such
as social security number, passport number, medical information etc.) to be collected, used, transferred
and processed by the Company and OpenAI.
I also consent to the Company’s and OpenAI’s sharing of my personal data with third parties for purposes
described in this Global Data Privacy Notice for Employees, Applicants and Candidates.
Signature: ____________________
Name:_______________________
Date: _______________________

